.TH SCED 1
.SH NAME
sced \- a constraint based scene modeller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sced
.OP -F filename []
.OP -D defaults []
.OP -I WidthxHeight []
.OP "Xtoolkit options" "" []
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sced
is a modeller useful for designing and previewing scenes for later rendering.
It supports the creation and editing of simple objects. Lights and cameras
can be created and edited. Objects are created by instancing a basic object
type. New types may be created through Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG)
or by loading an externally defined wireframe.
.PP
The program provides an iteractive interface where appropriate. In particular,
objects are placed and edited with the aid of interactive constraints.
The constraints allow for the rapid arrangement of objects in relation to
other objects in the scene, or arbitrary points. An interactive interface
is also provided for dynamically adjusting the view of the scene
presented by the program.
.PP
Sced currently exports scenes to POVray, Rayshade, Radiance, RenderMan,
Genray and Genscan.
.PP
For full documentation see the user's guide distributed with the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-F filename"
Load the specified filename on startup.
.IP "-D defaults"
Use default values found in the given file. If this option is not present
the program will look for a file called .scenerc in the user's home
directory. Failing this, internal defaults will be used. The format for the
defaults file is described in the User's Guide.
.IP "-I WidthxHeight"
Use an editing window of the given size. This does not effect the size of
the programs window (use -geom), rather it determines the size of the
scrollable window in which the scene appears.
.SH BUGS
Tell me when you find them.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I Sced User's Guide,
genray(1),
.I POVRay User's Guide, Rayshade User's Guide
.SH AUTHOR
Stephen Chenney : stephen@cs.su.oz.au
